I would love if you could compare the
moment that we are in right now in 2025
to the early days of the internet and
I'll ask it as a as a sort of question
where it's like AI is to 2025 as the
internet is to what year?
>> Um okay internet history I guess it was
arponet and whatnot in the 70s. Uh but
the web kind of I think of it as born in
uh
Mosaic was launched in 93 or so if I
remember correctly and then Netscape
however many years after that. Um
I think um in some ways you can draw
parallels.
Um I don't know you could say with sort
of I don't know transformers in 2017 the
first inklings of our uh new kind of
language models
but I think it's really different
>> in many ways. I mean for one thing um
the internet
was brilliant and enabled many things
uh but it wasn't like technically
revolutionary
um in the sense um you know like uh with
the web Tim Berners Lee at CERN they
were just organizing the scientists data
and stuff and sharing it and um they did
a great job and it took off as a viral
organizational thing and it's been
phenomenal, don't get me wrong. Uh but
it wasn't like
um
nobody would have like questioned
whether that was physically possible
>> 5 years before. There was no real
limitations. Um in this case, we don't
really know what intelligence is.
>> We don't know how far we can take it.
Um, I think a lot of people, myself
included, are just surprised how quickly
and how far it is ramped.
>> Um, and
uh, so that's just an important
distinction. Like we don't even know
what the possible peak is.
>> Like with the internet, you could
imagine everybody could communicate at
high speed with everybody else. There'd
be, you know, every company would have a
website, you know, which they do now. Um
but you could you could have
realistically imagined that in 1990
let's say or um
and even uh there were things before
that like gopher I don't probably dating
myself but um there were things before
the web
>> uh that were kind of like that um but
yeah with with AI you don't know where
the peak is or if there's a peak at all
>> um so that's one important difference Um
the other important difference and for
better or for worse um this has now
gained you know profound international
attention. I mean the amount of
resources and you know money and compute
and energy that are flowing towards AI
is extraordinary. you know, the early
days of web, we were a startup, you
know, we whatever we we we got uh a
little uh seed loan, less than a million
dollars, we were off to the races, you
know, I think we got like $10 million in
our venture round and that was that.
>> Um, you know, these days companies are
spending billions and billions of
dollars building, you know, the best AI
models in the world. Um and um
that's a good and bad thing, but uh but
it's definitely different.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so I just think it's um
>> in as much as there are parallels, I
just think we have no idea where this is
going.
>> So to that end then, do you believe that
AI is fundamentally more of a discovery
than an invention?
Do you feel like this is some emergent
property of the universe and we're just
stumbling upon it or is this like the
ultimate test of human creation?
>> Well, I I mean I guess both of those
things that you said.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
are distinct
um from from what the web might have
been. I mean, yeah, I think it's a
discovery in the sense like we simply do
not know what is the limit to
intelligence. There's no
law that says, you know, can you be 100
times smarter than Einstein? Can you be
a billion times smarter? Can you
>> be a Google time smarter? You know,
there's no um I don't I I think we have
just no idea what the laws governing
that are.
>> And um so yeah, I guess I guess you
could call it a discovery of sorts. Uh
maybe an analogy is sort of um quantum
computing where you don't really know
how much computation are you really
going to be able to get out of the
universe.
>> Um kind of the basic laws of quantum
mechanics suggests it's extremely high.
Um but
you don't know in practice if there are
just other limitations you don't know
about right now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's
fascinating. But you ultimately think
that AI is a more momentous
discovery or invention than the
internet.
Yeah, I I think the internet was um
it was definitely very important.
Uh but it was sort of as much a uh kind
of social
development like everybody agreeing to
use these protocols and then kind of
making their data and systems available
for everybody else with you know
>> TCP and IP and then um
>> you know HTML, HP just agreeing on
protocols and allowing it to grow and
flourish. um you know, maybe akin to how
money was an invention uh thousands of
years ago that let people, you know,
really trade and stuff,
>> but it's not like
um it's not neither money nor the
internet are testing the limits of the
universe.
>> But AI is
>> But AI is Yeah. because we just um we
don't know how intelligent things can be
and we don't know you know we know some
things about the brain. There's maybe
whatever 100 billion neurons
>> 100 uh trillion sinapses uh and they run
so fast but
>> you know with our computers can we you
know simulate that can we go beyond that
>> um and how far and what would that be
like?
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> we just don't know. I feel like in that
in that way the question of you know how
do we approach this what do we build who
should work on this are all questions
that are philosophical just as much as
they are um you know technical or
economic
>> 100% yeah well consciousness is another
kind of thing that gets brought into it
you know
>> the internet didn't raise questions of
consciousness for example but right
>> you know if this AI is smart enough and
self-aware enough
>> does that matter what does that mean I
don't know
>> yeah um You started Google famously in a
garage in Menllo Park with Larry Pageige
in 1998. You were just two guys trying
to build something because you saw an
opportunity. Now Google is a two
trillion dollar company which I hope I
have this right 180,000 employees. um
maybe
>> plus or minus plus or minus you track it
as well as I
>> um I'm sure riding the AI wave so to
speak with all that infrastructure has
many uh and many um advantages but I'm
curious if there's any part of you that
maybe just 1% wishes you were 20 years
old again just graduated from Stanford
it was just two guys in a garage.
>> Um
oh that's a good question. Um, I mean,
look, I'm just grateful
as computer scientists to be alive at
any age, uh, during this time. Um,
I think if you were to walk across the
street, I don't know, maybe you can talk
some folks into letting you know that
later. Uh, you know, and you see how all
of the AI researchers are all gathered
kind of around around the coffee machine
and whatnot, and, you know, everybody's
excited. I mean, it is a very
startuplike feel. Mhm.
>> Uh it's not really a garage obviously.
>> Uh though technically, by the way, when
we started, we had the garage and a
couple bedrooms.
>> Okay, good.
>> It was sort of like But we did have the
garage. Uh but it wasn't just a garage.
Um
>> my greatest fear was getting a
historical detail wrong, so I'm glad
[laughter] that's done. Now we
>> No, no, we we we tell the story kind of
like a garage. I mean, but uh but but
there were a couple uh rooms in
addition, which helped a lot. That's
good.
>> Um but um I mean there is a very
entrepreneurial sense I think
given the kinds of um
compute requirements um that are
required to compete at the forefront
right now. Um
and um
kind of the amount of science that goes
into it. it would be really hard to try
to um make a lot of headway,
>> at least on the foundation model side as
a couple guys in the garage. Uh lots of
folks in garages
can use these models to create new and
amazing things. Um and um I don't want
to discount the possibility that
somebody's just going to have some idea
that's so brilliant uh that even in a
sort of a couple people in the garage
could pull it off.
Um, but it it seems like
the the frontier is being pushed by,
you know, pretty big companies like
ours. I think we're now at the frontier.
I'm very proud of the product progress
we made over the last
>> year. Um, so honestly, I'm really
grateful to be able to be a part of
that. So,
>> I don't think I would take that uh
teleportation to my younger self just
yet.
>> Yeah. What is the most sci-fi sounding
thing that you actually believe has like
a decent chance of becoming real let's
say in the next 10 years?
I [snorts] think the most exciting will
be
uh
Gemini
making some really substantial
contribution to itself
>> in terms of uh you know machine learning
idea that it comes up with maybe
implements uh and to develop the next
version of itself. We already use Gemini
a lot during like pieces like some AI
researcher will be like oh I need to you
know debug this code for me or um you
know help me with this math uh or
something like that as sort of one-offs
but uh as a sort of really substantive
some kind of new
um significant breakthrough
um that the AI itself makes. Um, I think
that to me that's science fiction and um
then I think it could well happen.
>> Yeah. If you had to ballpark guess when
do you think Gemini will create the next
version of Gemini?
>> Uh, I mean I I like I said it's already
assisting that's already happening. Um,
but from like kind of some kind of from
scratch sort of rewrite. I don't know.
That's a tough question. I don't know if
I don't know how high of a priority that
is to some extent because we sort of
can
guide it you know at what point is it
possible
um
maybe in a
3 years let's say three four years I I
don't know if it would the vision the
virtue it would make just by itself
would be quite as good as itself
[snorts] But um you know if you think
about it with our new um video model the
V3 let's I mean
>> which by the way brought me to tears in
the [laughter] demo area just a few
>> in a good way I hope in a very good way.
>> Okay just yeah the sound something about
it just came
>> yeah no sound is such a huge deal
>> I didn't realize how much that was
missing until it and it was all there
and it just yeah it hit me like a ton of
bricks.
>> Oh well thank you. Um,
but you know, in theory, I guess I've
never tried this, but well, first of
all, you don't I don't know if we
support this in the user interface, but
you don't have to give it a prompt. Um,
like it will just generate a video. Our
user interface might not actually
support not having a prompt. Uh, but
then you would have no idea what it's
going to make.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, you could just say make a good
video, I guess. um that would be sort of
the model just by itself going but
generally I think when it's directed by
a person and presumably that's what you
did you gave it some prompt some target
>> uh you know you get really good results
I guess I'm just saying
if Gemini creates the next great version
of Gemini I think
>> for the sort of foreseeable future it
will probably do better if there's a
human that sort of guides it at at least
at some high
way. I mean, it it could conceivably
someday blank slate, just go to town, do
everything without any guidance.
>> Um, but yeah, that's that's level of
sci-fi I don't think we've gotten to
yet.
>> Got it. So, for the foreseeable future,
you do foresee a world in which it's the
Google employees helping the AI along to
build the next versions of Gemini, the
next the future that we're going to
>> Yeah. Yeah, that's right.
>> Yeah. Yeah. [snorts] Um, how much I'm
curious how much of your time and energy
you spend on sort of these like the
deeper more meaty philosophical
questions of AI versus I'm sure all of
the the the technical questions, the
practical questions, the business
questions.
How Yeah. How much of your energy goes
towards all of that given that it is
such a you know feels like we're
discovering some fundamental underlying
capability of the universe at the same
time as building cool tech.
>> Yeah.
I mean,
probably not that much goes to the
philosophical questions just as a
practical matter. It's just like there's
so many technical details you need to
get right on the on the way there.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, you know, I'm ftting about our being
able to sign up for whatever Ultra and
VO3 and all the all the things that
aren't quite working as I'd hoped. And
I'm uh right now hassling the engineers
and the product managers about all the
little um snafuss.
Um I mean it's definitely nice to take a
step back.
Um some of the philosophical questions
do kind of im emerge
out of the technical details
>> like um you know we have some new model
how are we how are we going to evaluate
it let's say
>> um like what does it mean for the model
to be good we have sort of standard
benchmarks and things that at some point
the models tend to get really good at
those benchmarks
um
And uh you know every time you need to
kind of redesign that you do take a step
back kind of philosophically and try to
figure out you know what is important.
Um when you have new kinds of AI models
uh the diffusion model for example that
you can now uh play with
>> um
text diffusion that's not like an apples
to apples thing. Mhm.
>> So now we're kind of asking, well,
how do we compare a thing that doesn't,
you know, go left to right that's
actually kind of spinning the whole
thing out at once?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, how do we measure
that compared to our uh kind of normal
auto reagive models? So, a lot of these
things bring up some philosophical
questions.
Um
but you are pretty grounded and knows
the grindstone uh no pun intended
>> uh answering them.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, you're it's it's
rooted in such practicality. You
actually it's not you know it's not
theory about what other people are
working on when you're actually in the
lab building.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I don't know. Probably
be great for me to be able to spend more
time on some of the philosophical
questions.
>> Um but there's there's a lot going on.
>> There's a lot there.
>> Yeah. Um, I don't know how much time we
have left, but one question I do want to
make sure I get the chance to ask is,
what's a question or a topic that you
wish people like me, interviewers, asked
you more about?
>> A question or a topic that I wish people
would ask me about? Oh my gosh. Um,
h
okay to formulate this as a question or
I guess I guess I could just sort of
answer the question. Maybe that'd be
easier. Um, uh, I I I guess it's this
overall
idea
that people sort of react to, let's say,
new AI announcements, whatever. We we
announced a bunch of things yesterday
and now, you know, what can you do with
those things?
Um,
and there's a bunch of cool stuff you
can do with those things. Um, and then
there's a bunch of stuff you can't or
it's not quite right.
But I think the interesting question is
what are you going to be able to do with
kind of those things next generations
in one year in two years. Um, and that's
that brings uh, you know, all kinds of
exciting questions. M
>> uh I mean
language models
2 years ago made so many very
embarrassing
uh errors.
>> Mhm.
>> It was kind of like,
oh wow, this thing actually did this
correctly and that's super cool.
That's very different than, oh my gosh,
I can actually use this as a tool for
whatever it is because I, you know, if
it's, you know, going to be right 20% of
the time, I can, you know, whatever,
post a tweet with it, which is like,
wow, that's cool. But I can't actually
use it dayto-day.
uh and um
nevertheless when you kind of look at
the trend
uh you probably will be able to use it
dayto-day with reasonable reliability.
>> Um so
I think as people kind of think about
where they're going to plug these tools
in
uh to whatever it is they're trying to
do, you know, you're trying to make a
movie.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh VO is cool and that has sound now.
you know, maybe a year ago you've been
like, well, it doesn't have a sound will
be a pain. Um, we've done some work for
continuity of characters and things like
that, but it's uh it's and we we
actually have some movies we are making
with it, but it's probably still not
ideal for making
like some kind of two-hour film.
>> Sure. Um [snorts] but nevertheless I
think when you look at how far these
tools have come in the last couple years
you know all the video models not just
ours but you know
>> um all of them and you forecast in a
couple more years boy you're going to be
able to do a lot of really interesting
things with them. M
>> um so I
>> can you give some examples of that
because one of the arguments I've heard
is like by far video is the most exp if
you look at all the different modalities
here video is the most computationally
expensive and what's the practical
application fun videos on YouTube you
know AI rot on Tik Tok like there's a
lot of um controversy or conversation
amongst uh you know folks about why are
we investing so much time and energy
into doing it besides the fact that it's
really really cool. Can you share what
are some of those other practical
applications of these video models?
>> Yeah, I mean like I say, I mean, I think
it's like the difference between a cool
toy
and sort of a useful tool,
you know, sort of a matter of of time
and it happens gradually. And um
uh you know, we're trying to aim for the
useful tool. Um we have some uh film
producers that are here. Um, I think
Darren Aronowski might have already
spoken to I don't know if he was on
panel or something, but he's making a
video. Um, I've um a close friend of
mine, Dustin, is making a video. Um, but
like you know, some real artists are
using these tools,
>> but it's early days. I mean, they're
obviously
dealing with something
that two years from now movie directors
will think was kind of a joke. Mhm.
>> Uh but they're putting up with it to be,
you know, on the frontier
and I I think these models will be
capable of producing really compelling
videos. Um they'll be able to do it, you
know, in concert with, you know, human
directors, human actors and so forth.
Yeah,
>> I think that Areronowski film does have
it has a combination of like you know
real life sort of acting combined with
AI generation in in a pretty cool way.
Um
but I you know look we today obviously
we have the um industrial light magic
all the you know uh Lucasfilm you know
they do all the special effects you know
we already use technology to generate
film. um this is just sort of a new
dimension in that and obviously
early days and maybe it's not, you know,
the best resolution. It's not like the
best um continuity over a long period of
time or whatnot, but
>> I I think you'll see all those things
come along. Uh so we're trying to push
the envelope so these things become real
tools,
>> uh not just toys.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The one of the things
I always say on on my platform is
whatever you think about it today, this
is the worst that it will ever look.
>> Yeah, that's right. That's exactly
correct.
>> Um I Okay, so I got the signal for one
more question. Um so I I'll I'll ask
this one on on behalf of all of the, you
know, the builders out there who are so
excited about this moment, but are not a
Google employee. They're not working at
a Frontier Lab. Is there any sort of
direction that you would point these
people into? Whether they have a
software engineering background or are
just simply somebody who is understands
the depth and the importance of this
moment and wants to be involved. Is
there a direction that you would point
them into to say start here? Or maybe is
there a direction you would say don't go
in that way. Don't don't waste your
time.
>> Um
well, there's so many great ideas, so I
would be reluctant to stop anybody from
doing anything cuz you you never know.
Yeah.
>> Um
uh I think there's actually an
increasing amount of really interesting
academic work even you know outside of
the big labs. Um and I think it has sort
of happened with this um advent of
reasoning models that that happens more
in the what we call post-raining kind of
reinforcement learning
>> um step which is more manageable with
the amount of compute resources that
lots of um academic institutions or
small companies have. Um and there are
lots of actually open weight models
including our Java models that you can
use to experiment with that. Um,
increasingly I think you'll see um some
kinds of reinforcement learning APIs
from the top models so that you know you
can send us your problems um maybe with
correct solutions or graders and you
know we can contribute uh your problems
the mix of like if you want the model to
be good at that. Um so I think that kind
of thing is coming. Uh yeah, I actually
I think it's pretty good time
um to be able to make an impact
uh without having to train up a
foundation model.
>> Amazing. Well, thank you so much for
your time. Thank you.